date = oct 1 2011
--

Hi Mom.

The surreality of being here is something else. Even tho I am somewhat
adjusted time-wise, it's so surreal that it feels like a waking dream
state.  Life takes so many forms here -- it's complete and utter
chaos, but on the other hand, it's elegant and fluid. For example,
just walking through the streets, I'll come across a pack of feral
dogs that include me in their pack for blocks, growling and barking at
anyone who comes close to us. Then, they'll move on to somewhere else.
There's pigs that eat trash on the side of the road with their little
piglets. Cows seriously don't have any concern for anything. They walk
through the streets, through highway traffic (50 mph traffic), not
giving a care, and the cars swerve around them. I haven't seen an
accident yet. People drive CRAZY. Shit. Lanes are painted on the
street, but they might as well be decoration. Motorcyclists drive with
their lady-friends on the back, sometimes holding one or two small
children. And monkeys.

There's so much trash. Smells like shit most of the time. Piled up on
the side of the roads. You'll see cows and pigs just laying in it.
Dogs everywhere -- sleeping under cars, wherever there's a cool spot.

The beggar kids are ruthless. They'll come up to you in their
scraggly-ass clothes and tug on my bracelets, but their grubby hands
in my pockets, and try to get something - anything - to bring back to
their parents. Historically, the worker class just sends their kids
out to collect anything they can. They are so dirty it's astonishing.
One thing I noticed is that there aren't that many homeless kids in
SF. They're every age here. Granted, they are super cute, but very
pushy.

Been reading about certain cities where any destruction of any from of
life, including insects, is not acceptable, and everyone is
vegetarian. They drink tons of milk and cheese, tho. It's yummy. Gift
from the cows. Really interesting history about how some of the first
animal hospitals of the world started in India and enforced the first
city-wide laws against animal cruelty. It's ancient practice. The laws
say the greatest thing we can do is protect all living things. The
concept is if you're cruel to animals, you are cruel to all life,
since animals are powerless it shows you true nature -- ie, they can't
do anything back to you and since you don't have to be worried about
that, you are showing your true self. I just find it amazing that
these concepts are pre-history (300 BC) and embedded in the culture.
Ancient text make these teachings not only the core of personal
morality, but of politics, including preservation of ecology. The
troubles of the city in the form of poverty, pollution, corruption,
are considered to pass. "All things must past, even Buddhism itself".

Most of these rules became embedded in politics by [Ashoka](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ashoka). The guy was rutheless. 
After The Kalinga War where he killed 100,000's of non-violent people, 
he was moved by all the death
that he completely embraced Bhuddism and completely did a 180. He
become adevotee of ahimsa (nonviolence), love, truth, tolerance and
vegetarianism. The Ashoka Chakra, "the wheel of Righteousness" is the
wheel that's on the India flag and was considered one of the most
peaceful rulers in history and introduced a secular state ethic of
non-violence. It's such a vibrant history.

I really want to travel to the south of India -- when Steph gets here,
I'm planning a 12-day train trip down to the southern tip.

I'm still figuring out the best place to upload pictures. Vishal and I
are planning to create a book of the entire collaboration, so I might
send you snapshots here and there, but at the end, I'll have a proper
documentation.

I've been sending individual people updates as they come -- Stephanie
and I have been chatting, and Dad's been sending me little emails too.
I heard there was some worry about Daniel arriving in Geneva, but
hopefully that's all good. I know it's sometimes hard to find
internet, and it's so exhausting to travel. It took me about 5 days to
really adjust. 

Life in the house is good. Very low key compared to the outside world
which is hot, dusty, and sticky. The entire family eats meals together
which is nice. It's been hard to cook for myself, as the house staff
and the mom takes that very seriously as their job. They're all
vegetarian so it hasn't been an adjustment to the food, it's been
pretty basic and good. Daal, rice, bread, etc. Most of my time is
spent in Vishal's studio at this point, working on our project. It's
coming together.